README.md, before:

# Synapse User Restrictions Module

This module allows restricting users, that match given regular expressions,
from performing actions such as creating rooms or sending invites.


## Installation

From the virtual environment that you use for Synapse, install this module with:
```shell
pip install path/to/synapse-user-restrictions
```
(If you run into issues, you may need to upgrade `pip` first, e.g. by running
`pip install --upgrade pip`)

Then alter your homeserver configuration, adding to your `modules` configuration:
```yaml
modules:
  - module: synapse_user_restrictions.UserRestrictionsModule
    config:
      # List of rules. Earlier rules have a higher priority than later rules.
      rules:
        - match: "@admin.*:example.org"
          allow: [invite, create_room]

        - match: "@assistant.*:example.org"
          allow: [invite]

      # If no rules match, then these permissions are denied.
      # All other permissions are allowed by default.
      default_deny: [invite, create_room]
```

In this example:
- `@adminalice:example.org` could create rooms and invite users to
rooms;
- `@assistantbob:example.org` could invite users to rooms but NOT create rooms;
and
- `@plainoldjoe:example.org` could neither create rooms nor invite users.

### Configuration

Rules are applied top-to-bottom, with the first matching rule being used.

A rule matches if the regular expression (written in `match`) fully matches the
user's Matrix ID, and the permission being sought is either in the `allow` list
or the `deny` list.
The regular expression must match the full Matrix ID and not just a portion of it.

Valid permissions (as at the time of writing) are:

- `invite`: the user is trying to invite another user to a room
- `create_room`: the user is trying to create a room

If no rules match, then `default_deny` is consulted;
`default_deny` is useful for only allowing a select few listed user patterns to
be allowed to use certain features.


## Development

In a virtual environment with pip ≥ 21.1, run
```shell
pip install -e .[dev]
```

To run the unit tests, you can either use:
```shell
tox -e py
```
or
```shell
trial tests
```

To run the linters and `mypy` type checker, use `./scripts-dev/lint.sh`.


## Releasing

The exact steps for releasing will vary; but this is an approach taken by the
Synapse developers (assuming a Unix-like shell):

 1. Set a shell variable to the version you are releasing (this just makes
    subsequent steps easier):
    ```shell
    version=X.Y.Z
    ```

 2. Update `setup.cfg` so that the `version` is correct.

 3. Stage the changed files and commit.
    ```shell
    git add -u
    git commit -m v$version -n
    ```

 4. Push your changes.
    ```shell
    git push
    ```

 5. When ready, create a signed tag for the release:
    ```shell
    git tag -s v$version
    ```
    Base the tag message on the changelog.

 6. Push the tag.
    ```shell
    git push origin tag v$version
    ```

 7. If applicable:
    Create a *release*, based on the tag you just pushed, on GitHub or GitLab.

 8. If applicable:
    Create a source distribution and upload it to PyPI.

Commit message:

Update README to note that server admins are exempt (#4)

README.md, after:

# Synapse User Restrictions Module

This module allows restricting users, that match given regular expressions,
from performing actions such as creating rooms or sending invites.

Note that server administrators are not bound by these rules, as the code
within Synapse exempts server administrators from some 'spam checks',
including those used in this module (creating rooms and inviting users).


## Installation

From the virtual environment that you use for Synapse, install this module with:
```shell
pip install path/to/synapse-user-restrictions
```
(If you run into issues, you may need to upgrade `pip` first, e.g. by running
`pip install --upgrade pip`)

Then alter your homeserver configuration, adding to your `modules` configuration:
```yaml
modules:
  - module: synapse_user_restrictions.UserRestrictionsModule
    config:
      # List of rules. Earlier rules have a higher priority than later rules.
      rules:
        - match: "@admin.*:example.org"
          allow: [invite, create_room]

        - match: "@assistant.*:example.org"
          allow: [invite]

      # If no rules match, then these permissions are denied.
      # All other permissions are allowed by default.
      default_deny: [invite, create_room]
```

In this example:
- `@adminalice:example.org` could create rooms and invite users to
rooms;
- `@assistantbob:example.org` could invite users to rooms but NOT create rooms;
and
- `@plainoldjoe:example.org` could neither create rooms nor invite users.

### Configuration

Rules are applied top-to-bottom, with the first matching rule being used.

A rule matches if the regular expression (written in `match`) fully matches the
user's Matrix ID, and the permission being sought is either in the `allow` list
or the `deny` list.
The regular expression must match the full Matrix ID and not just a portion of it.

Valid permissions (as at the time of writing) are:

- `invite`: the user is trying to invite another user to a room
- `create_room`: the user is trying to create a room

If no rules match, then `default_deny` is consulted;
`default_deny` is useful for only allowing a select few listed user patterns to
be allowed to use certain features.


## Development

In a virtual environment with pip ≥ 21.1, run
```shell
pip install -e .[dev]
```

To run the unit tests, you can either use:
```shell
tox -e py
```
or
```shell
trial tests
```

To run the linters and `mypy` type checker, use `./scripts-dev/lint.sh`.


## Releasing

The exact steps for releasing will vary; but this is an approach taken by the
Synapse developers (assuming a Unix-like shell):

 1. Set a shell variable to the version you are releasing (this just makes
    subsequent steps easier):
    ```shell
    version=X.Y.Z
    ```

 2. Update `setup.cfg` so that the `version` is correct.

 3. Stage the changed files and commit.
    ```shell
    git add -u
    git commit -m v$version -n
    ```

 4. Push your changes.
    ```shell
    git push
    ```

 5. When ready, create a signed tag for the release:
    ```shell
    git tag -s v$version
    ```
    Base the tag message on the changelog.

 6. Push the tag.
    ```shell
    git push origin tag v$version
    ```

 7. If applicable:
    Create a *release*, based on the tag you just pushed, on GitHub or GitLab.

 8. If applicable:
    Create a source distribution and upload it to PyPI.
